The first thing I do in every Python project is make a virtual environment by typing `python -m venv {{name}}`. The purpose of this is to ensure that all variables are on the same version. if I am on Windows, and my virtual environment is named "flask-app", I can access it by going to a terminal and typing `.\flask-app\Scripts\activate`. On Mac, it's something like `source venv/bin/activate` I can deactivate by just typing `deactivate` in my terminal. The purpose of having a virtual environment is similar to why we have docker containers: we want to make sure all libraries and versions are consistent. When I upload this, I don't upload the virtual environment folder, but I'll upload a file named "requirements.txt" which enables you to install the exact versions of the exact libraries I used. This helps reproduce the same content on multiple machines. If we work on the same project for 5 years, we don't want someone to be on a different version of a library, because they could have a different UX(user experience) than someone else.
<br>
<h2>Secondly, we install the libraries</h2>
Once I'm entered into the virtual environment, you can type `pip install {{library name}}` and it will install this library into your local virtual environment instead of installing it as a global library on your machine. You'll also want to go to the bottom right of VSCode if that's your text editor of choice. It might say "Python 3.12.2" or something like that. Make sure you click it and assign it to use the name of your virtual environment. The reason you do that is so that you're able to see local libraries with autocorrect, not global ones.
<br>
<h2>Next, we start working!</h2>
<br>
Once you feel like you've contributed something meaningful, you're going to want to upload stuff to github. You can go into your terminal and type `git init`. This initializes a local git repository in your current directory. You'll want to make a new file named `.gitignore`, and instead of it, you'll type the names of files/folders that you don't want uploaded. For example, I will type `flask-app` because that is the name of my virtual environment that I don't want to upload to github. If you have any keys or secret codes, you'd also put the name of these files here.
<br>
<h2> Ready to push to Github? We'll talk about that in person more! :) </h2>